Israeli forces have carried out at least
eight strikes on humanitarian workers
convoys and premises in Gaza since
October even after their coordinates
were shared with the Israeli authorities
that's according to Human Rights Watch
the report also finds that the Israelis
didn't issue any advanced warnings the
latest casualty is a United Nations
staff member killed in eastern Rafa this
is the first International un casualty
with more than 190 Palestinian un
workers killed since October the 7th our
correspondent Steph deer joins us from
the Jordanian Capital Aman since benj
Benjamin netanyahu's government shut
down aljazera in Israel so Stephanie
when Israel killed seven Aid workers
last month and angered the US president
they apologized and they said that they
were going to set up a new process to
avoid a repeat event and yet here we are
again with Israel targeting and killing
Aid
workers yes uh the Army the only sort of
official reaction we've had has said
said that they were in an area of active
combat and that they're looking into the
incident they're investigating the
incident but the UN has incredibly
strict security protocol when they
operate even when it's not a hostile
environment sarl I mean even just moving
around when things are business as usual
in Gaza even the occupied West Bank um
so they have a very strict deconfliction
information giving to Israel um and
certainly again like I don't know what
else can be done because what they do is
they give the coordinates of their
locations in terms of you know hospitals
schools uh headquarters and then they
also very much give the uh information
when it comes to a moving Convoy so
there's been a lot of pressure on Israel
to do more but when it does happen at
some point sometimes there may be an
apology but there's never any
accountability um so you know it's just
a reality that is ongoing and as many
Palestinians will tell you of course
there's more International Spotlight
usually when it's an International uh
that gets killed at the hands of Israel
but Palestinian Aid workers as you
mentioned there get killed on a daily
basis this has been the most deadly
Conflict for un staff and for Aid
workers uh in modern history so it just
gives you a sense um of of just you know
the question mark is how do you how do
you prevent it from happening it seems
certainly under Israeli uh you know
modus operandi
impossible Stephanie if I can get your
reporting on something completely
different now um it's related it's
obviously about Gaza Israeli settlers
have been attacking Aid convoys that are
bound for the Gaza Strip what do you
know about
that yes well these are convoys that are
leaving Jordan leaving from here uh and
they cross the occupied West Bank and
it's been many events really over the
last couple of weeks and months they've
intensified recently last night the
latest uh you prob I'm not sure if
you're playing the video but you can see
settlers these are sort of far right wi
Ultra nationalist in their ideology so
they're taking off the bags they're
throwing them around you even have small
kids doing the same thing and nothing is
being prevented this is the
extraordinary thing s like the Israeli
police the Israeli security forces the
Israeli Border Police the Israeli Army
who you name it is not doing anything
they could very easily uh be
accompanying these convoys through the
occupied West Bank and getting them uh
to Gaza now it's reaching International
condemnation the the US National
Security adviser Jake Sullivan yesterday
basically saying this total outrage that
people are attacking and looting these
convoys that they are talking to the
Israeli government at the highest levels
that they're looking at what measures
they can use to stop this um Jordan has
condemned it and saying that it's
Israel's Duty legally as an occupying
power to ensure Aid gets to Gaza but
politically the head of the police force
the National Security advisor is itar
benav the right-wing Minister who has
the same ideology as those attack
attacking the Convoy they believe that
no Aid should be going uh to Gaza not to
Hamas not to civilians they see them as
par and Par the same um so of course
there's a lot of criticism that Israel
can do more and it's simply not doing
that all right Stephanie Decker
reporting from Aman Jordan because once
again the Israeli government has shut
down Al Shazer within Israel thank you
very much Stephanie let's bring in
Muhammad El masri a political analyst
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies Muhammad
to be honest uh regardless of one's
position on the conflict it is hard to
watch the footage that we just saw right
uh all our reporting is that that Aid is
so desperately needed inside the Gaza
Strip and there has been almost no food
no water no fuel going in for a week and
now the footage we just showed we're
seeing settlers that are being um uh
Allowed by Israeli authorities to to
just throw the Aid on the ground when
it's within within meters or kilometers
of Gaza right well people like Elon Pape
Gideon Levy and other Israeli Scholars
and journal J have talked about a type
of blood lust that exists right now um
among a significant contingent within
Israeli uh within Israeli society and
those people don't want Aid to go in as
you've been as Stephanie was was
reporting in fact when they've done
these sort of man on the street
interviews uh some of the Israelis are
very open in saying that they don't want
Aid even to reach children they're
saying that these children will grow up
to be terrorists and some of them have
said we should have killed the children
back in 2014 when we had the opportunity
because those kids are now uh terrorists
so um this is the attitude that I think
um everyone has to realize uh uh that
we're dealing with um now it's
interesting and I don't want to be
reductionist about it but so much of
this comes back to the United States uh
well because the United States is the
one international power The Entity that
can stop all of this as we've said
numerous on numerous occasions uh and
they're not even acknowledging that
Israel is committing a war crime with
the prevention of Aid they released this
memo a few days ago it's littered with
contradictions on the one hand they're
saying Israel doesn't seem to be doing
all that it can to allow Aid in on the
other hand they're saying that there's
no evidence of a war crime that Israel
is actually actively preventing Aid uh
from from going in and we have to
remember here there is an international
consensus here among experts that Israel
is committing a war crime by actively
preventing aid from getting into the
strip and there's some pretty glaring
and major blind spots uh in the US's
messaging on the one hand they'll say
for instance a couple days ago they were
saying well the US president was on the
phone with Benjamin Netanyahu uh and he
got some kind of assurance that the
border crossing of border crossing of
kar Abu Salam would be reopened because
the Israelis had closed it right and now
we're seeing no for a week nothing's
been going in the White House messaging
we got the Assurance this would be
reopened the fact is no right well the
assumption is always that the US exerts
uh pressure on Israel that's been the
historic assumption but the reality is
what we're seeing is that it's Israel
that exerts pressure on the United
States and forces the US's forces the
US's hand uh the US how is that even
possible I mean the mismatch of of power
you know is obviously in the US's favor
well it's fascinating um John mimer
political scientist from the University
of uh of Chicago says that this
relationship between the United States
and Israel is unlike anything that we've
ever had in the history of political
relations right it's a very
extraordinarily uh special relationship
and it's one where Israel can exert
power over the United States number one
because the US long ago decided to marry
itself to Israel to sort of adopt uh
Israel as its long lost son um and then
the other thing is that the the Israeli
the Israeli Lobby inside the United
States it's incredibly powerful and it
it exerts a lot of influence over us
politicians at the micro and macro level
so you end up having the us having to
react to What Israel is doing on the
ground Israel says no we're not going to
do this we're not going to take your
advice and the US has to react but
that's the thing is that even with your
explanation and I follow what you just
said the US seems to be following Israel
in what they in what the US considers
mistakes I was bringing this up with you
earlier right blinkin said uh today's
Tuesday so blinkin said two days ago
pull out of Gaza this is a mistake
you're going to end up with an enduring
Insurgency and they're not doing it
they're committed to the war and the US
is also signaling well they haven't
crossed our red lines right and I want
to be clear I'm not saying that this is
rational or logical or that I agree with
it I'm just saying this is this is the
US strategic calculation I actually
happen to think that it makes no sense
for the us to do for for the US to be
doing what it's doing I think this is
undermind the US there's nothing about
what's happening in Gaza that ends up
helping uh us interests in the region
and now it's even hurting the US
domestically we have these protests you
have Biden effectively committing
political suicide I don't think there's
any way at this point barring something
unforeseen something cataclysmic
happening over the next few months I
don't see any way forward for him in the
November uh uh election against Donald
Trump he's losing in six of the seven uh
swing States the opinion polling data
are quite damning uh you have young
people all all over the country uh
protesting and uh the reason he's going
to lose this election I think is because
of how he's handled
Gaza Muhammad mus that's okay I I'm
going to let that hang there that's
really interesting it's something that's
going to warrant another conversation
but we will get a chance to have that
conversation thank you very much mamad
M make sure to subscribe our channel to
get the latest news from aler